how to check Node.js and NVM are correctly installed? I do not want to tell me again your install was not correct. Tell me how to check this!


It sounds like you've been through a lot to get your Node.js and NVM setup working, and it's completely understandable that you want to be sure! Let's focus on how to check if they're correctly installed and ready to go.

Checking Node.js Installation
The most straightforward way to check if Node.js is installed and accessible is to open your terminal (Command Prompt or PowerShell) and type:

Bash

node -v
If Node.js is installed correctly and its path is set up, this command will output the installed Node.js version, for example:

v22.19.0
If you get an error like "node is not recognized as an internal or external command," it means Node.js isn't installed correctly or its directory isn't in your system's PATH.

Checking npm Installation
npm (Node Package Manager) is installed automatically with Node.js. You can check its version similarly:

Bash

npm -v
This should also output a version number, for instance:

10.9.3
If npm -v gives an error, it further indicates a problem with your Node.js/npm installation.

Checking NVM (Node Version Manager) Installation
After installing nvm-windows and ensuring you've reopened your terminal, you can check if nvm is recognized by typing:

Bash

nvm version
If nvm is installed and configured correctly, you'll see its version number, like:

1.2.2
If you get the "nvm is not recognized" error, it means nvm wasn't installed properly, or its installation directory wasn't added to your system's PATH.

Verifying NVM's Functionality with Node.js
Once nvm is recognized, you can use it to manage Node.js versions:

List available Node.js versions for installation:

Bash

nvm list available
This will show you a list of Node.js versions you can install.

Install the latest LTS version (if you haven't already):

Bash

nvm install lts
This command tells nvm to download and install the latest Long-Term Support version of Node.js.

List installed Node.js versions:

Bash

nvm list
This command will show you all the Node.js versions you have installed via nvm. The currently active version will have an asterisk next to it.

Use a specific Node.js version:

Bash

nvm use <version_number>
Replace <version_number> with the version you want to use (e.g., nvm use 22.19.0).

After running nvm use, you should verify that node -v now shows the version you just selected. This confirms nvm is correctly switching between Node.js versions.

In summary: The key is to run node -v, npm -v, and nvm version in a newly opened terminal window after any installation or configuration changes. If these commands produce version numbers, your core tools are set up. Then, using nvm list and nvm use further confirms that your version manager is working.